Newsletters: add 314 (2024-08-02) (#1801)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-08-02-newsletter.md

  chunk might include a transaction that depends on the 99,000-vbyte
  chunk.  If a miner fails to include a dependent transaction in their
  block template, any block they produce from that template will be
  invalid.

  To work around this edge case problem, Wuille describes how large
  chunks can be broken down into smaller _sub-chunks_ that can
  considered for inclusion in the remaining block space based on their
  feerates.  A sub-chunk can be created by simply removing the last
  transaction in any existing chunk or sub-chunk that has two or more
  transactions.  This will always produce at least one sub-chunk that is
  smaller than its original chunk and it may sometimes result in several
  sub-chunks.  Wuille demonstrates that the number of chunks and
  sub-chunks is equal to the number of transactions, with each
  transaction belonging to a unique chunk or sub-chunk.  That makes it
  possible to precompute each transaction's chunk or sub-chunk, called
  its _absorption set_, and associate that with the transaction.  Wuille
  shows how the existing chunking algorithm already calculates each
  transaction's absorption set.

>   When a miner has filled a template will all of the full chunks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When a miner has filled a template with all of the full chunks
```

  possible, it can take the precomputed absorption sets for all
  transactions not yet included in the block and put them in feerate
  order.  This only requires a single sort operation on a list with the
  same number of elements as there are transactions in the mempool
  (almost always less than a million with current defaults).  The best

>   feerate absorption sets (chunks and sub-chunks) can then be used them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  feerate absorption sets (chunks and sub-chunks) can then be used to
```

  fill the remaining block space.  This requires tracking the number of
  transactions from a cluster that have been included so far and
  skipping any sub-chunks that don't fit or which have already had some
  of their transactions included.

  However, although linearization puts a list of chunks in the best
  order for block inclusion, the individual transactions within a chunk
  or sub-chunk are not guaranteed to be in the best order for only
  including some of those transactions.  That can lead to non-optimal
  selection when a block is nearly full.  For example, when only 300

>   vbytes remains, the algorithm might select a 200-vbyte transaction at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  vbytes remain, the algorithm might select a 200-vbyte transaction at
```

  5 sats/vbyte (1,000 sats total) instead of two 150-vbyte transactions
  at 4 sats/vbyte (1,200 sats total).

  Wuille describes how precomputed absorption sets are especially useful
  in this case: because they only require tracking the number of
  transactions from each cluster that have been included so far, they
  make it easy to restore to an earlier state in the template-filling
  algorithm and replace the previously made choice with an alternative

>   choice to see if it results in collecting more total fees.  This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to see if it results in collecting more total fees.  This
```

  order for block inclusion, the individual transactions within a chunk
  or sub-chunk are not guaranteed to be in the best order for only
  including some of those transactions.  That can lead to non-optimal
  selection when a block is nearly full.  For example, when only 300
  vbytes remain, the algorithm might select a 200-vbyte transaction at
  5 sats/vbyte (1,000 sats total) instead of two 150-vbyte transactions
  at 4 sats/vbyte (1,200 sats total).

  Wuille describes how precomputed absorption sets are especially useful
  in this case: because they only require tracking the number of
  transactions from each cluster that have been included so far, they
  make it easy to restore to an earlier state in the template-filling
  algorithm and replace the previously made choice with an alternative
  to see if it results in collecting more total fees.  This
  allows implementing a [branch-and-bound][] search that can try many
  combinations of filling the last bit of block space in the hopes of
  finding a better result than the simple algorithm.

- **Hyperion network event simulator for the Bitcoin P2P network:**

>   Sergi Delgado [posted][delgado hyperion] to Delving Bitcoin about a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Sergi Delgado [posted][delgado hyperion] to Delving Bitcoin about
```

  [Hyperion][], a network simulator he's written that tracks how data
  propagates through a simulated Bitcoin network.  The work is initially
  motivated by a desire to compare Bitcoin's current method for relaying
  transaction announcements (`inv` inventory messages) to the proposed
  [Erlay][topic erlay] method.

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

> - [BDK 1.0.0-beta.1][] is a release candidate for "the beta first version of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [BDK 1.0.0-beta.1][] is a release candidate for "the first beta version of
```
Also, I don't think this is even a "release candidate", it's certainly not called that in the release notes.

Author: Ping BDK maintainer @notmandatory

Interesting.  I may have been misled by GitHub's UI calling it a "Pre-Release":

![2024-07-31-12_04_43_356780437](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ce36a3f0-d17f-4881-90bb-afb5469d59b9)

Comparing to LND, which uses `-beta` for its main releases, it looks like "Pre-Release" is set for their RCs but not their main releases:

![2024-07-31-12_08_56_620346134](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e7aef132-a3db-406f-b3b6-d72c757df1cd)

![latest](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e177926a-f905-4bba-ad1c-fa61d6c31197)

I suggest I make the transposition fix now but that we leave it described as an RC for this newsletter, see what @notmandatory says, and make any required changes to our announcement for next week's newsletter.

Reviewer 3: Hey sorry I just saw this in my notifications. BDK 1.0-beta.1 is the first release candidate for an upcoming final BDK 1.0 release. It's also worth noting that the original `bdk` rust crate has been renamed to `bdk_wallet` (https://crates.io/crates/bdk_wallet).

The old `bdk` crate used to include everything but was renamed `bdk_wallet` with lower layer modules extracted into their own crates (`bdk_chain`, `bdk_electrum`, `bdk_esplora`, `bdk_bitcoind_rpc`). Most users will only see `bdk_wallet` and which ever chain syncing crate(s) they want to use.

The purpose of the 1.0-beta.x releases is to:

1. help users update their apps to a ~stable 1.0 `bdk_wallet` API
2. improve testing and API docs
3. update and add examples and tutorials
4. update language bindings (kotlin, swift, python)

Hope this all makes sense, if not just let me know.

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #314'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/08/02/
name: 2024-08-02-newsletter
slug: 2024-08-02-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter announces the disclosure of two vulnerabilities
affecting older versions of Bitcoin Core and summarizes a proposed
approach to optimizing miner transaction selection when cluster mempool
is in use.  Also included are our regular sections announcing new releases
and release candidates and describing notable changes to popular Bitcoin
infrastructure software.

## News

- **Disclosure of vulnerabilities affecting Bitcoin Core versions before 0.21.0:**
  Niklas Gögge [posted][goegge disclosure] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing
  list a link to announcements of
  two vulnerabilities affecting versions of Bitcoin Core that have been
  past their end of life since at least October 2022.  This follows a
  previous disclosure last month of older vulnerabilities (see
  [Newsletter #310][news310 disclosure]).  We summarize the disclosures
  below:

  - [Remote crash by sending excessive `addr` messages][]: before

>     Bitcoin 22.0 (released September 2021), a node that was told about

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Bitcoin Core 22.0 (released September 2021), a node that was told about
```

    more than 2<sup>32</sup> other possible nodes would crash due to
    exhaustion of a 32-bit counter.  This could be accomplished by an
    attacker sending a large number of P2P `addr` messages (at least 4
    million messages). <!-- assuming 1,000 addresses per addr message -->
    Eugene Siegel [responsibly disclosed][topic responsible disclosures]
    the vulnerability and a fix was included in Bitcoin Core 22.0.  See
    [Newsletter #159][news159 bcc22387] for our summary of the fix,

>     which was written without us being aware that it patched a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    which was written without us knowing it patched a
```

    vulnerability.

>   - [Remote crash on local network when UPnP enabled][]: before Bitcoin

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - [Remote crash on local network when UPnP enabled][]: before Bitcoin Core
```

    22.0, nodes that enabled [UPnP][] for automatically configuring [NAT
    traversal][] (disabled by default due to previous vulnerabilities,
    see [Newsletter #310][news310 miniupnpc]) were vulnerable to a

>     malicious device on the local network repeatedly sending a variants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    malicious device on the local network repeatedly sending variants
```
or "a variant"

    miniupnpc was reported to the miniupnpc project by Ronald Huveneers,
    with Michael Ford discovering and responsibly disclosing how it
    could be used to crash Bitcoin Core.  A fix was included in Bitcoin
    Core 22.0.

  Additional vulnerabilities affecting later versions of Bitcoin Core
  are expected to be disclosed in a few weeks.

- **Optimizing block building with cluster mempool:** Pieter Wuille
  [posted][wuille selection] to Delving Bitcoin about ensuring that
  miner block templates can include the best set of transactions when
  using [cluster mempool][topic cluster mempool].  In the design for
  cluster mempool, _clusters_ of related transactions are divided into
  an ordered list of _chunks_, with each chunk obeying two constraints:

  1. If any transactions within the chunk depend on other unconfirmed
     transactions, those other transactions must either be a part of
     that chunk or appear in a chunk earlier in the ordered list of
     chunks.

  2. Each chunk must have an equal or higher feerate than the chunks
     that come after it in the ordered list.

  This allows every chunk from every cluster in the mempool to be placed

>   into a single list that is ordered from highest feerate to lowest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  into a single list ordered from highest feerate to lowest
```

  limit for a cluster in Bitcoin Core expected to be about 100,000
  vbytes.  That means a miner constructing a block template that is
  targeting 998,000 vbytes, and which already has 899,001 vbytes filled,
  may encounter a 99,000 vbyte chunk that doesn't fit, leaving roughly
  10% of their block space unused.  That miner can't simply skip that
  99,000-vbyte chunk and try to include the next chunk because the next
  chunk might include a transaction that depends on the 99,000-vbyte
  chunk.  If a miner fails to include a dependent transaction in their
  block template, any block they produce from that template will be
  invalid.

  To work around this edge case problem, Wuille describes how large
  chunks can be broken down into smaller _sub-chunks_ that can
  considered for inclusion in the remaining block space based on their
  feerates.  A sub-chunk can be created by simply removing the last
  transaction in any existing chunk or sub-chunk that has two or more
  transactions.  This will always produce at least one sub-chunk that is
  smaller than its original chunk and it may sometimes result in several
  sub-chunks.  Wuille demonstrates that the number of chunks and

>   sub-chunks is equal to the number of transactions, with each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  sub-chunks equals the number of transactions, with each
```

  transactions could be added to block templates (or a minimal-fee-loss
  order in which they can be evicted from a full mempool).  These functions
  are not yet integrated into the mempool, so there's no behavior change
  in this PR.

- [Bitcoin Core #30482][] improves parameter validation for REST endpoint
  `getutxos` by rejecting truncated or overlarge txids and throwing an
  `HTTP_BAD_REQUEST` parse error. Previously this would also fail, but would be
  handled silently.

- [Bitcoin Core #30275][] changes the default mode of the `estimatesmartfee` RPC
  command from conservative to economical. This change is based on user and
  developer observations that the conservative mode often leads to overpayment
  of transaction fees because it is less responsive to short-term fee market
  drops than the economical mode when [estimating fees][topic fee estimation].

- [Bitcoin Core #30408][] replaces the use of the wording "public key script" to
  "output script" to refer to a `scriptPubKey` in the help text for the following
  RPC commands `decodepsbt`, `decoderawtransaction`, `decodescript`, `getblock`
  (if verbosity=3), `getrawtransaction` (if verbosity=2,3),  and `gettxout`.

>   This is the same wording that is used in the proposed BIP for transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is the same wording used in the proposed BIP for transaction
```
